             MAROCCHINO Pipeline Status & Plans

23 June 2015
  Initial variant of pipeline. The variant was converted from
CAPPUCCINO by the following steps:
  a) mor1kx_decode & mor1kx_decode_execute_cappuccino were combined
     into one mor1kx_decode_marocchino
  b) mor1kx_execute_alu and mor1kx_execute_ctrl_cappuccino were
     combined into one mor1kx_execute_marocchino
  c) LSU related operations and l.mf(t)spr processing were moved from
     CTRL stage to EXECUTE one. So LSU & CTRL modules were modified
     appropriately.
  d) CTRL-stage related registers were removed
  e) The logic for bubble generation, forwarding results, pipeline
     control signals generation were significantly simplified
  f) Exceptions are taken on WB-stage now
  g) WB registers were extended to handle flags and exceptions
     additionally to result
  h) Debug unit support was damaged


23 July 2015
  FETCH refactored. However, the main achievement is simplification
of logic for generation padv-* and exception processing.


14 August 2015
  Some improvement for fetch. As a result, we don't need "fetch_valid"
flag to control pipeline.


6 September 2015
  Pipelined multiplier. Some adaptation for FPU pipelines. Move WB
latches into mor1kx_execute_marocchino to prepare implementation of
control for paralleled execution units. So, mor1kx_wbmux_marocchino
has been removed from design.


6 November 2015
  First variant with out-of-order completion and 8-taps
Order Control Buffer (OCB).


31 December 2015
 The major achievement is that all modules, including LSU, DCACHE,
Store Buffer, etc. are ready for more pipelinization. All RAM blocks are
replaced with ones containing "enable" signal. And Read/Write conflict
resolving is moved out from RAM modules. Both of these modifications are
essential steps toward design of pipeline control logic for each
pipelined module.


5 March 2016
 (a) Restore LSU pipelinization
 (b) Remove last stage of FETCH to improve performance
 (c) Branch prediction is replaced by branch forwarding from EXECUTE
(in fact most of instructions those affect flag are 1-clock length, so
flag is usually computed by EXECUTE while FETCH is fetching delay slot)
 (d) CoreMark 109 Iterations/sec, i.e. 109/50 = 2.18 CoreMark/MHz


7 August 2016
 (a) Make FEATURE_PIC and FEATURE_TIMER "enabled" permanently
 (b) Decouple PIC and TIMER from CTRL
 (c) Re-Factoring SPR bus to make all modules data outputs registered
 (d) DU updated to be compliant to MAROCCHINO pipeline, but not
     verified because I have not got a JTAG dongle
 (e) Multi-cycle execution units (MUL, DIV and FP32-arithmetic) were
     moved out of mor1kx_excecute_maroccchino module. The rest part of
     mor1kx_excecute_maroccchino were re-named to
     mor1kx_exec_1clk_marocchino
 (f) WB- registers in all execution modules were re-designed to make
     exception processing more straight


1 October 2016
 (a) Initial implementation of simple two-stages reservation stations
 (b) Improvement for FPU-32 stages controls to achieve higher
     pipelinization


12 October 2016
  Tomasulo algorithm has been implemented. Simple 2-stages reservation
stations are used.


14 October 2016
  SRT-4 for integer operands is implemented. Even so it doesn't improve
CoreMark digits, I'm personally interested in faster variants of integer
division. Further I'm going to re-use the srt4_kernel module in FPU64
divider.


3 December 2016
  FEATURE_FPU has been opened
  Combined single/double precision FPU pipes are implemented to save
area. Obsolete single-only precision pipes has been removed from project.
  Re-locate reservation stations from execution modules level to
CPU level. Combine reservation stations for multiplier, divider and FPU
into common M-clk station. Implement all data hazards resolving in
reservation stations.
  Massive re-naming to achieve more consistent naming system.


14 January 2017
  Speculative write back for LSU has been implemented. The technique
decrease DCACHE's and DMMU's outputs participation in pipe control logic.
In next turn it improves timing, so router is able to meet constrains easily.
  Remove redundancy for hazards resolving in reservation stations.
In fact extension bits are enough.
  Corrections in hierarchy of some registers.
  Corrections in comments to simplify source exploring.


22 January 2017
  DU re-factored. Tested with OpenOCD: halt, resume, load image, reg, mdw.
The "hello" and "vmlinux" were successfully loaded and executed with Mohor's
JTAG-TAP and Advance Debug System. Step-by-step execution not tested yet.


05 March 2017
  (1) pipeline_flush is register now.
  (2) Collapse store buffer if a DBUS error occurs during write.
  (3) Move link address computation for l.jal and l.jalr fro DECODE to ALU
  (4) Remove FLAG and CARRY related hazards detection in DECODE and resolving
them in 1-CLK reservation station. They were used in 1-CLK execution unit only.
However, when 1-CLK execution unit receives access to WB it means all hazards
are resolved. So, FLAG and CARRY related hazards  were redundant.
  (5) Parameterization of Order Control Buffer.
  (6) More accurate EPCR update in according with exception hierarchy
  (7) Quasi speculative jump/branch taking. There were quite complex logic
contributing to padv_decode and stalled IFETCH if jump or branch related data
were not available to jump or branch execution. The modification remove the
logic from control paths (pdv_decode) and add quasi branch miss indicator in
IFETCH's stage #1. By miss IFETCH continue jump/branch fetching attempts till
jump/branch target/flag become ready
  (8) More accurate tracking for NPC thanks to previous
  (9) Remove redundant bits from SPR EVBAR, exception_pc_addr and DU SPRs


Primary TODOs:
  - Verify step by step execution with DU
  - Verify Multi-Core operations
  
Secondary TODOs:
  - Implement write-back data cache
